*: Improve documentation readability and consistency using GPT-3.5 (#13730)
pingcap/docs: mysql-compatibility.md

# MySQL Compatibility

TiDB is highly compatible with the MySQL 5.7 protocol and supports the common features and syntax of MySQL 5.7. This means that ecosystem tools such as PHPMyAdmin, Navicat, MySQL Workbench, mysqldump, and Mydumper/myloader, as well as the MySQL client, can be used for TiDB.

However, some features of MySQL are not supported in TiDB. This could be because there is now a better way to solve the problem (such as the use of JSON instead of XML functions) or a lack of current demand versus effort required (such as stored procedures and functions). Additionally, some features might be difficult to implement in a distributed system.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

It's important to note that TiDB does not support the MySQL replication protocol. Instead, specific tools are provided to replicate data with MySQL:

> - Replicate data from MySQL: [TiDB Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md) is a tool that supports full data migration and incremental data replication from MySQL/MariaDB into TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replicate data from MySQL: [TiDB Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md) is a tool that supports existing data migration and incremental data replication from MySQL/MariaDB into TiDB.
```

> - Replicate data from MySQL: [TiDB Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md) is a tool that supports full data migration and incremental data replication from MySQL/MariaDB into TiDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Replicate data from MySQL: [TiDB Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md) is a tool that supports full data migration and incremental data replication from MySQL or MariaDB into TiDB.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > This page describes general differences between MySQL and TiDB. For more information on compatibility with MySQL in the areas of security and pessimistic transaction mode, please refer to the dedicated pages on [Security](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md) and [Pessimistic Transaction Mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md#difference-with-mysql-innodb).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This page describes general differences between MySQL and TiDB. For more information on compatibility with MySQL in the areas of security and pessimistic transaction mode, refer to the dedicated pages on [Security](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md) and [Pessimistic Transaction Mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md#difference-with-mysql-innodb).
```

### Query Execution Plan

The output format, content, and privilege settings of Query Execution Plan (`EXPLAIN`/`EXPLAIN FOR`) in TiDB differ significantly from those in MySQL.

> In TiDB, the MySQL system variable `optimizer_switch` is read-only and has no effect on query plans. Although optimizer hints can be used in a similar syntax to MySQL, the available hints and their implementation may differ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In TiDB, the MySQL system variable `optimizer_switch` is read-only and has no effect on query plans. Although optimizer hints can be used in similar syntax to MySQL, the available hints and their implementation might differ.
```

For more information, refer to [Understand the Query Execution Plan](/explain-overview.md).

### Built-in functions

TiDB supports most of the built-in functions in MySQL, but not all. You can use the statement `SHOW BUILTINS` to get a list of the available functions.

For more information, refer to the [TiDB SQL Grammar](https://pingcap.github.io/sqlgram/#functioncallkeyword).

### DDL operations

In TiDB, all supported DDL changes can be performed online. However, there are some major restrictions on DDL operations in TiDB compared to MySQL:

> * When using a single `ALTER TABLE` statement to alter multiple schema objects (such as columns or indexes) of a table, specifying the same object in multiple changes is not supported. For example, if you execute the `ALTER TABLE t1 MODIFY COLUMN c1 INT, DROP COLUMN c1` command, the `Unsupported operate same column/index error` is output.

Reviewer 2: Should we put "error" inside here? Or just keep the original version.

Author: IMO the original version is better.

> * When using a single `ALTER TABLE` statement to alter multiple schema objects (such as columns or indexes) of a table, specifying the same object in multiple changes is not supported. For example, if you execute the `ALTER TABLE t1 MODIFY COLUMN c1 INT, DROP COLUMN c1` command, the `Unsupported operate same column/index error` is output.

Author: ```suggestion
* When using a single `ALTER TABLE` statement to alter multiple schema objects (such as columns or indexes) of a table, specifying the same object in multiple changes is not supported. For example, if you execute the `ALTER TABLE t1 MODIFY COLUMN c1 INT, DROP COLUMN c1` command, the `Unsupported operate same column/index` error is output.
```

    - `SUBPARTITION`
    - `{CHECK|OPTIMIZE|REPAIR|IMPORT|DISCARD|REBUILD} PARTITION`

    For more details on partitioning, see [Partitioning](/partitioned-table.md).

> ### Analyzing Tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Analyzing tables
```

In TiDB, [Statistics Collection](/statistics.md#manual-collection) differs from MySQL in that it completely rebuilds the statistics for a table, making it a more resource-intensive operation that takes longer to complete. In contrast, MySQL/InnoDB performs a relatively lightweight and short-lived operation.

For more information, refer to [`ANALYZE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-analyze-table.md).

### Limitations of `SELECT` syntax

> TiDB does not support the following SELECT syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB does not support the following `SELECT` syntax:
```

        - On Windows: `1`. It means table names are stored in lowercase on disk, and name comparisons are not case-sensitive. MySQL converts all table names to lowercase on storage and lookup. This behavior also applies to database names and table aliases.
        - On macOS: `2`. It means table and database names are stored on disk according to the letter case specified in the `CREATE TABLE` or `CREATE DATABASE` statement, but MySQL converts them to lowercase on lookup. Name comparisons are not case-sensitive.
- Default value of `explicit_defaults_for_timestamp`:
    - The default value in TiDB is `ON`, and only `ON` is currently supported.
    - MySQL defaults to the following values:
        - For MySQL 5.7: `OFF`.
        - For MySQL 8.0: `ON`.

### Date and Time

TiDB supports named timezones with the following considerations:

+ TiDB uses all the timezone rules presently installed in the system for calculation, typically the `tzdata` package. This makes it possible to use all timezone names without needing to import timezone table data. Importing timezone table data will not change the calculation rules.

> + Currently, MySQL uses the local timezone by default, then relies on the current timezone rules built into the system (for instance, when daylight savings time begins) for calculation. Without [importing timezone table data](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/time-zone-support.html#time-zone-installation), MySQL cannot specify the timezone by name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Currently, MySQL uses the local timezone by default, then relies on the current timezone rules built into the system (for example, when daylight savings time begins) for calculation. Without [importing timezone table data](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/time-zone-support.html#time-zone-installation), MySQL cannot specify the timezone by name.
```
